cwe: CWE-824
name: Access of Uninitialized Pointer
languages: C, C++
tags: Base, Incomplete, Memory Management
---
Short Description:
The product accesses or uses a pointer that has not been initialized.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- Apply least privilege, validate input, and follow vendor hardening guides.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:NOTE:If the uninitialized pointer is used in a read operation, an attacker might be able to read sensitive portions of memory.
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:If the uninitialized pointer references a memory location that is not accessible to the product, or points to a location that is malformed (such as NULL) or larger than expected by a read or write operation, then a crash may occur.
- Integrity:Confidentiality:Availability:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:NOTE:If the uninitialized pointer is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation, then code execution may be possible.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
If the pointer contains an uninitialized value, then the value might not point to a valid
memory location. This could cause the product to read from or write to unexpected memory
locations, leading to a denial of service. If the uninitialized pointer is used as a
function call, then arbitrary functions could be invoked. If an attacker can influence the
portion of uninitialized memory that is contained in the pointer, this weakness could be
leveraged to execute code or perform other attacks. Depending on memory layout, associated
memory management behaviors, and product operation, the attacker might be able to
influence the contents of the uninitialized pointer, thus gaining more fine-grained
control of the memory location to be accessed.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
