cwe: CWE-464
name: Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
languages: C, C++
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The accidental addition of a data-structure sentinel can cause serious programming logic
problems.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation Architecture and Design:Encapsulate the user from interacting with data sentinels. Validate user input to verify that sentinels are not present.
- PHASE:Implementation:Proper error checking can reduce the risk of inadvertently introducing sentinel values into data. For example, if a parsing function fails or encounters an error, it might return a value that is the same as the sentinel.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. This is not a complete solution.
- PHASE:Operation:Use OS-level preventative functionality. This is not a complete solution.
Don't:
- Integrity:Avoid situations leading toModify Application Data:NOTE:Generally this error will cause the data structure to not work properly by truncating the data.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Data-structure sentinels are often used to mark the structure of data. A common example of
this is the null character at the end of strings or a special sentinel to mark the end of
a linked list. It is dangerous to allow this type of control data to be easily accessible.
Therefore, it is important to protect from the addition or modification of sentinels.

::PHASE:Implementation Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Encapsulate the user from
interacting with data sentinels. Validate user input to verify that sentinels are not
present.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Proper error checking can reduce the risk of
inadvertently introducing sentinel values into data. For example, if a parsing function
fails or encounters an error, it might return a value that is the same as the
sentinel.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Use an abstraction library to
abstract away risky APIs. This is not a complete
solution.::PHASE:Operation:DESCRIPTION:Use OS-level preventative functionality. This is
not a complete solution.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
