cwe: CWE-182
name: Collapse of Data into Unsafe Value
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product filters data in a way that causes it to be reduced or collapsed into an unsafe
value that violates an expected security property.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Input Validation:Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
- Canonicalize the name to match that of the file system's representation of the name. This can sometimes be achieved with an available API (e.g. in Win32 the GetFullPathName function).
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Avoid making
decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate
names.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is
malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of
acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be
decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before
being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input
twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by
introducing dangerous inputs after they have been
checked.::PHASE::DESCRIPTION:Canonicalize the name to match that of the file system's
representation of the name. This can sometimes be achieved with an available API (e.g. in
Win32 the GetFullPathName function).::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
