cwe: CWE-385
name: Covert Timing Channel
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
Covert timing channels convey information by modulating some aspect of system behavior
over time, so that the program receiving the information can observe system behavior and
infer protected information.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Whenever possible, specify implementation strategies that do not introduce time variances in operations.
- PHASE:Implementation:Often one can artificially manipulate the time which operations take or -- when operations occur -- can remove information from the attacker.
- PHASE:Implementation:It is reasonable to add artificial or random delays so that the amount of CPU time consumed is independent of the action being taken by the application.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Other:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:Avoid situations leading toOther:NOTE:Information exposure.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
In some instances, knowing when data is transmitted between parties can provide a
malicious user with privileged information. Also, externally monitoring the timing of
operations can potentially reveal sensitive data. For example, a cryptographic operation
can expose its internal state if the time it takes to perform the operation varies, based
on the state. Covert channels are frequently classified as either storage or timing
channels. Some examples of covert timing channels are the system's paging rate, the time a
certain transaction requires to execute, and the time it takes to gain access to a shared
bus.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Whenever possible, specify implementation
strategies that do not introduce time variances in
operations.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Often one can artificially manipulate the
time which operations take or -- when operations occur -- can remove information from the
attacker.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:It is reasonable to add artificial or random
delays so that the amount of CPU time consumed is independent of the action being taken by
the application.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
