cwe: CWE-359
name: Exposure of Private Personal Information to an Unauthorized Actor
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product does not properly prevent a person's private, personal information from being
accessed by actors who either (1) are not explicitly authorized to access the information
or (2) do not have the implicit consent of the person about whom the information is
collected.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Requirements:Identify and consult all relevant regulations for personal privacy. An organization may be required to comply with certain federal and state regulations, depending on its location, the type of business it conducts, and the nature of any private data it handles. Regulations may include Safe Harbor Privacy Framework [REF-340], Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (GLBA) [REF-341], Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) [REF-342], General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [REF-1047], California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) [REF-1048], and others.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Carefully evaluate how secure design may interfere with privacy, and vice versa. Security and privacy concerns often seem to compete with each other. From a security perspective, all important operations should be recorded so that any anomalous activity can later be identified. However, when private data is involved, this practice can in fact create risk. Although there are many ways in which private data can be handled unsafely, a common risk stems from misplaced trust. Programmers often trust the operating environment in which a program runs, and therefore believe that it is acceptable store private information on the file system, in the registry, or in other locally-controlled resources. However, even if access to certain resources is restricted, this does not guarantee that the individuals who do have access can be trusted.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::METHOD:Architecture or Design Review:DESCRIPTION:Private personal data can enter a
program in a variety of ways: Directly from the user in the form of a password or personal
information Accessed from a database or other data store by the application Indirectly
from a partner or other third party If the data is written to an external location - such
as the console, file system, or network - a privacy violation may
occur.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static
analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find
some instances of this weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without
having to execute it. Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control
flow, then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of
input) with sinks (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower
layer such as the OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Requirements:DESCRIPTION:Identify and consult all relevant regulations for
personal privacy. An organization may be required to comply with certain federal and state
regulations, depending on its location, the type of business it conducts, and the nature
of any private data it handles. Regulations may include Safe Harbor Privacy Framework
[REF-340], Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (GLBA) [REF-341], Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) [REF-342], General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
[REF-1047], California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) [REF-1048], and
others.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Carefully evaluate how secure design
may interfere with privacy, and vice versa. Security and privacy concerns often seem to
compete with each other. From a security perspective, all important operations should be
recorded so that any anomalous activity can later be identified. However, when private
data is involved, this practice can in fact create risk. Although there are many ways in
which private data can be handled unsafely, a common risk stems from misplaced trust.
Programmers often trust the operating environment in which a program runs, and therefore
believe that it is acceptable store private information on the file system, in the
registry, or in other locally-controlled resources. However, even if access to certain
resources is restricted, this does not guarantee that the individuals who do have access
can be trusted.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
