cwe: CWE-628
name: Function Call with Incorrectly Specified Arguments
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product calls a function, procedure, or routine with arguments that are not correctly
specified, leading to always-incorrect behavior and resultant weaknesses.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Build and Compilation:Once found, these issues are easy to fix. Use code inspection tools and relevant compiler features to identify potential violations. Pay special attention to code that is not likely to be exercised heavily during QA.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Make sure your API's are stable before you use them in production code.
Don't:
- Other:Access Control:Avoid situations leading toQuality Degradation:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:This weakness can cause unintended behavior and can lead to additional weaknesses such as allowing an attacker to gain unintended access to system resources.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
There are multiple ways in which this weakness can be introduced, including: the wrong
variable or reference; an incorrect number of arguments; incorrect order of arguments;
wrong type of arguments; or wrong value.

::METHOD:Other:DESCRIPTION:Since these bugs typically introduce incorrect behavior that is
obvious to users, they are found quickly, unless they occur in rarely-tested code paths.
Managing the correct number of arguments can be made more difficult in cases where format
strings are used, or when variable numbers of arguments are supported.::

::PHASE:Build and Compilation:DESCRIPTION:Once found, these issues are easy to fix. Use
code inspection tools and relevant compiler features to identify potential violations. Pay
special attention to code that is not likely to be exercised heavily during
QA.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Make sure your API's are stable before you
use them in production code.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
