cwe: CWE-167
name: Improper Handling of Additional Special Element
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not handle or
incorrectly handles when an additional unexpected special element is provided.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- Developers should anticipate that extra special elements will be injected in the input vectors of their product. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the system.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
- PHASE:Implementation:Output Encoding:While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together, sometimes it may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection (CWE-88).
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Don't:
- Integrity:Avoid situations leading toUnexpected State

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::PHASE::DESCRIPTION:Developers should anticipate that extra special elements will be
injected in the input vectors of their product. Use an appropriate combination of
denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed
by the system.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all
input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list
of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does
not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Output Encoding:DESCRIPTION:While it is risky to
use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data
together, sometimes it may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special
characters within those arguments. The most conservative approach is to escape or filter
all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as
white space, wrap each argument in quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of
argument injection (CWE-88).::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input
Validation:DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's
current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the
application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to
bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been
checked.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
