cwe: CWE-168
name: Improper Handling of Inconsistent Special Elements
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product does not properly handle input in which an inconsistency exists between two or
more special characters or reserved words.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- Developers should anticipate that inconsistent special elements will be injected/manipulated in the input vectors of their product. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the system.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Don't:
- Availability:Access Control:Non-Repudiation:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:Avoid situations leading toHide Activities

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
An example of this problem would be if paired characters appear in the wrong order, or if
the special characters are not properly nested.

::PHASE::DESCRIPTION:Developers should anticipate that inconsistent special elements will
be injected/manipulated in the input vectors of their product. Use an appropriate
combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate
input is processed by the system.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input
Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input
validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to
specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or
transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all
potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and
conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be
syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid
if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely
exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least
one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give
attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful
for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they
should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input
Validation:DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's
current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the
application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to
bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been
checked.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
