cwe: CWE-88
name: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection')
languages: PHP
tags: Base, Draft, Program Invocation
---
Short Description:
The product constructs a string for a command to be executed by a separate component in
another control sphere, but it does not properly delimit the intended arguments, options,
or switches within that command string.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Parameterization:Where possible, avoid building a single string that contains the command and its arguments. Some languages or frameworks have functions that support specifying independent arguments, e.g. as an array, which is used to automatically perform the appropriate quoting or escaping while building the command. For example, in PHP, escapeshellarg() can be used to escape a single argument to system(), or exec() can be called with an array of arguments. In C, code can often be refactored from using system() - which accepts a single string - to using exec(), which requires separate function arguments for each parameter.:EFFECTIVENESS:High
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Input Validation:Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your product: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything read from the network, environment variables, request headers as well as content, URL components, e-mail, files, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Perform input validation at well-defined interfaces.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
- PHASE:Implementation:Directly convert your input type into the expected data type, such as using a conversion function that translates a string into a number. After converting to the expected data type, ensure that the input's values fall within the expected range of allowable values and that multi-field consistencies are maintained.
- PHASE:Implementation:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180, CWE-181). Make sure that your application does not inadvertently decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked. Use libraries such as the OWASP ESAPI Canonicalization control. Consider performing repeated canonicalization until your input does not change any more. This will avoid double-decoding and similar scenarios, but it might inadvertently modify inputs that are allowed to contain properly-encoded dangerous content.
- PHASE:Implementation:When exchanging data between components, ensure that both components are using the same character encoding. Ensure that the proper encoding is applied at each interface. Explicitly set the encoding you are using whenever the protocol allows you to do so.
- PHASE:Implementation:When your application combines data from multiple sources, perform the validation after the sources have been combined. The individual data elements may pass the validation step but violate the intended restrictions after they have been combined.
- PHASE:Testing:Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
- PHASE:Testing:Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Integrity:Availability:Other:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:Avoid situations leading toAlter Execution Logic:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:Avoid situations leading toModify Application Data:NOTE:An attacker could include arguments that allow unintended commands or code to be executed, allow sensitive data to be read or modified or could cause other unintended behavior.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When creating commands using interpolation into a string, developers may assume that only
the arguments/options that they specify will be processed. This assumption may be even
stronger when the programmer has encoded the command in a way that prevents separate
commands from being provided maliciously, e.g. in the case of shell metacharacters. When
constructing the command, the developer may use whitespace or other delimiters that are
required to separate arguments when the command. However, if an attacker can provide an
untrusted input that contains argument-separating delimiters, then the resulting command
will have more arguments than intended by the developer. The attacker may then be able to
change the behavior of the command. Depending on the functionality supported by the
extraneous arguments, this may have security-relevant consequences.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Parameterization:DESCRIPTION:Where possible, avoid
building a single string that contains the command and its arguments. Some languages or
frameworks have functions that support specifying independent arguments, e.g. as an array,
which is used to automatically perform the appropriate quoting or escaping while building
the command. For example, in PHP, escapeshellarg() can be used to escape a single argument
to system(), or exec() can be called with an array of arguments. In C, code can often be
refactored from using system() - which accepts a single string - to using exec(), which
requires separate function arguments for each
parameter.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Input
Validation:DESCRIPTION:Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter
your product: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything read from the network,
environment variables, request headers as well as content, URL components, e-mail, files,
databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Perform input
validation at well-defined interfaces.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input
Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input
validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to
specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or
transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all
potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and
conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be
syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid
if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely
exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least
one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give
attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful
for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they
should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Directly convert your input
type into the expected data type, such as using a conversion function that translates a
string into a number. After converting to the expected data type, ensure that the input's
values fall within the expected range of allowable values and that multi-field
consistencies are maintained.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded
and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being
validated (CWE-180, CWE-181). Make sure that your application does not inadvertently
decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist
schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked. Use libraries such
as the OWASP ESAPI Canonicalization control. Consider performing repeated canonicalization
until your input does not change any more. This will avoid double-decoding and similar
scenarios, but it might inadvertently modify inputs that are allowed to contain properly-
encoded dangerous content.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:When exchanging data between
components, ensure that both components are using the same character encoding. Ensure that
the proper encoding is applied at each interface. Explicitly set the encoding you are
using whenever the protocol allows you to do so.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:When
your application combines data from multiple sources, perform the validation after the
sources have been combined. The individual data elements may pass the validation step but
violate the intended restrictions after they have been
combined.::PHASE:Testing:DESCRIPTION:Use automated static analysis tools that target this
type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to minimize the number of
false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not
feasible.::PHASE:Testing:DESCRIPTION:Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with
the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing
(fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down,
but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
