cwe: CWE-90
name: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an LDAP Query ('LDAP Injection')
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product constructs all or part of an LDAP query using externally-influenced input from
an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special
elements that could modify the intended LDAP query when it is sent to a downstream
component.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Integrity:Availability:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:Avoid situations leading toModify Application Data:NOTE:An attacker could include input that changes the LDAP query which allows unintended commands or code to be executed, allows sensitive data to be read or modified or causes other unintended behavior.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is
malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of
acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
