cwe: CWE-1021
name: Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The web application does not restrict or incorrectly restricts frame objects or UI layers
that belong to another application or domain, which can lead to user confusion about which
interface the user is interacting with.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:The use of X-Frame-Options allows developers of web content to restrict the usage of their application within the form of overlays, frames, or iFrames. The developer can indicate from which domains can frame the content. The concept of X-Frame-Options is well documented, but implementation of this protection mechanism is in development to cover gaps. There is a need for allowing frames from multiple domains.
- PHASE:Implementation:A developer can use a frame-breaker script in each page that should not be framed. This is very helpful for legacy browsers that do not support X-Frame-Options security feature previously mentioned. It is also important to note that this tactic has been circumvented or bypassed. Improper usage of frames can persist in the web application through nested frames. The frame-breaking script does not intuitively account for multiple nested frames that can be presented to the user.
- PHASE:Implementation:This defense-in-depth technique can be used to prevent the improper usage of frames in web applications. It prioritizes the valid sources of data to be loaded into the application through the usage of declarative policies. Based on which implementation of Content Security Policy is in use, the developer should use the frame-ancestors directive or the frame-src directive to mitigate this weakness. Both directives allow for the placement of restrictions when it comes to allowing embedded content.
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:Avoid situations leading toModify Application Data:NOTE:An attacker can trick a user into performing actions that are masked and hidden from the user's view. The impact varies widely, depending on the functionality of the underlying application. For example, in a social media application, clickjacking could be used to trik the user into changing privacy settings.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
A web application is expected to place restrictions on whether it is allowed to be
rendered within frames, iframes, objects, embed or applet elements. Without the
restrictions, users can be tricked into interacting with the application when they were
not intending to.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:The use of X-Frame-Options allows developers of web
content to restrict the usage of their application within the form of overlays, frames, or
iFrames. The developer can indicate from which domains can frame the content. The concept
of X-Frame-Options is well documented, but implementation of this protection mechanism is
in development to cover gaps. There is a need for allowing frames from multiple
domains.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:A developer can use a frame-breaker script in
each page that should not be framed. This is very helpful for legacy browsers that do not
support X-Frame-Options security feature previously mentioned. It is also important to
note that this tactic has been circumvented or bypassed. Improper usage of frames can
persist in the web application through nested frames. The frame-breaking script does not
intuitively account for multiple nested frames that can be presented to the
user.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:This defense-in-depth technique can be used to
prevent the improper usage of frames in web applications. It prioritizes the valid sources
of data to be loaded into the application through the usage of declarative policies. Based
on which implementation of Content Security Policy is in use, the developer should use the
frame-ancestors directive or the frame-src directive to mitigate this weakness. Both
directives allow for the placement of restrictions when it comes to allowing embedded
content.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
