cwe: CWE-41
name: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, File Processing, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product is vulnerable to file system contents disclosure through path equivalence.
Path equivalence involves the use of special characters in file and directory names. The
associated manipulations are intended to generate multiple names for the same object.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.
- PHASE:Implementation:Output Encoding:Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being used by the downstream component.
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Integrity:Access Control:Avoid situations leading toRead Files or Directories:Avoid situations leading toModify Files or Directories:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:NOTE:An attacker may be able to traverse the file system to unintended locations and read or overwrite the contents of unexpected files. If the files are used for a security mechanism than an attacker may be able to bypass the mechanism.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Path equivalence is usually employed in order to circumvent access controls expressed
using an incomplete set of file name or file path representations. This is different from
path traversal, wherein the manipulations are performed to generate a name for a different
object.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR
[REF-1479], the following detection techniques may be useful: Cost effective for partial
coverage: Bytecode Weakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness
analysis:EFFECTIVENESS:SOAR Partial::METHOD:Manual Static Analysis - Binary or
Bytecode:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR [REF-1479], the following detection techniques may
be useful: Cost effective for partial coverage: Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use
manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies:EFFECTIVENESS:SOAR Partial::METHOD:Dynamic
Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR [REF-1479],
the following detection techniques may be useful: Cost effective for partial coverage: Web
Application Scanner Web Services Scanner Database Scanners:EFFECTIVENESS:SOAR
Partial::METHOD:Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation:DESCRIPTION:According
to SOAR [REF-1479], the following detection techniques may be useful: Cost effective for
partial coverage: Fuzz Tester Framework-based Fuzzer:EFFECTIVENESS:SOAR
Partial::METHOD:Manual Static Analysis - Source Code:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR
[REF-1479], the following detection techniques may be useful: Highly cost effective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source Manual Source Code Review
(not inspections):EFFECTIVENESS:High::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis - Source
Code:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR [REF-1479], the following detection techniques may be
useful: Cost effective for partial coverage: Source code Weakness Analyzer Context-
configured Source Code Weakness Analyzer:EFFECTIVENESS:SOAR Partial::METHOD:Architecture
or Design Review:DESCRIPTION:According to SOAR [REF-1479], the following detection
techniques may be useful: Highly cost effective: Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost effective for partial coverage: Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to
requirements, design, source code, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is
malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of
acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Output Encoding:DESCRIPTION:Use and specify an
output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the
output. Common encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not
specified, a downstream component may choose a different encoding, either by assuming a
default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some
character or byte sequences as special, even if they are not special in the original
encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct injection
attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original
encoding is also being used by the downstream
component.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be
decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before
being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input
twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass allowlist validation schemes by
introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
