cwe: CWE-1284
name: Improper Validation of Specified Quantity in Input
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product receives input that is expected to specify a quantity (such as size or
length), but it does not validate or incorrectly validates that the quantity has the
required properties.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.:EFFECTIVENESS:High
Don't:
- Other:Avoid situations leading toVaries by Context:NOTE:Since quantities are used so often to affect resource allocation or process financial data, they are often present in many places in the code.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Specified quantities include size, length, frequency, price, rate, number of operations,
time, and others. Code may rely on specified quantities to allocate resources, perform
calculations, control iteration, etc. When the quantity is not properly validated, then
attackers can specify malicious quantities to cause excessive resource allocation, trigger
unexpected failures, enable buffer overflows, etc.

::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is
malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of
acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
