cwe: CWE-212
name: Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or Transfer
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product stores, transfers, or shares a resource that contains sensitive information,
but it does not properly remove that information before the product makes the resource
available to unauthorized actors.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Requirements:Clearly specify which information should be regarded as private or sensitive, and require that the product offers functionality that allows the user to cleanse the sensitive information from the resource before it is published or exported to other parties.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Separation of Privilege:Compartmentalize the system to have safe areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area. Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and reinforces privilege separation functionality. Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
- PHASE:Implementation:Attack Surface Reduction:Use naming conventions and strong types to make it easier to spot when sensitive data is being used. When creating structures, objects, or other complex entities, separate the sensitive and non-sensitive data as much as possible.:EFFECTIVENESS:Defense in Depth
- PHASE:Implementation:Avoid errors related to improper resource shutdown or release (CWE-404), which may leave the sensitive data within the resource if it is in an incomplete state.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Files or Directories:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:NOTE:Sensitive data may be exposed to an unauthorized actor in another control sphere. This may have a wide range of secondary consequences which will depend on what data is exposed. One possibility is the exposure of system data allowing an attacker to craft a specific, more effective attack.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Resources that may contain sensitive data include documents, packets, messages, databases,
etc. While this data may be useful to an individual user or small set of users who share
the resource, it may need to be removed before the resource can be shared outside of the
trusted group. The process of removal is sometimes called cleansing or scrubbing. For
example, a product for editing documents might not remove sensitive data such as reviewer
comments or the local pathname where the document is stored. Or, a proxy might not remove
an internal IP address from headers before making an outgoing request to an Internet site.

::PHASE:Requirements:DESCRIPTION:Clearly specify which information should be regarded as
private or sensitive, and require that the product offers functionality that allows the
user to cleanse the sensitive information from the resource before it is published or
exported to other parties.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Separation of
Privilege:DESCRIPTION:Compartmentalize the system to have safe areas where trust
boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive data to go outside of the
trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the
safe area. Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design,
and the compartmentalization allows for and reinforces privilege separation functionality.
Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop
privileges.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Attack Surface Reduction:DESCRIPTION:Use naming
conventions and strong types to make it easier to spot when sensitive data is being used.
When creating structures, objects, or other complex entities, separate the sensitive and
non-sensitive data as much as possible.:EFFECTIVENESS:Defense in
Depth::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Avoid errors related to improper resource shutdown
or release (CWE-404), which may leave the sensitive data within the resource if it is in
an incomplete state.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
