cwe: CWE-648
name: Incorrect Use of Privileged APIs
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product does not conform to the API requirements for a function call that requires
extra privileges. This could allow attackers to gain privileges by causing the function to
be called incorrectly.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Before calling privileged APIs, always ensure that the assumptions made by the privileged code hold true prior to making the call.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Know architecture and implementation weaknesses of the privileged APIs and make sure to account for these weaknesses before calling the privileged APIs to ensure that they can be called safely.
- PHASE:Implementation:If privileged APIs make certain assumptions about data, context or state validity that are passed by the caller, the calling code must ensure that these assumptions have been validated prior to making the call.
- PHASE:Implementation:If privileged APIs do not shed their privilege prior to returning to the calling code, then calling code needs to shed these privileges immediately and safely right after the call to the privileged APIs. In particular, the calling code needs to ensure that a privileged thread of execution will never be returned to the user or made available to user-controlled processes.
- PHASE:Implementation:Only call privileged APIs from safe, consistent and expected state.
- PHASE:Implementation:Ensure that a failure or an error will not leave a system in a state where privileges are not properly shed and privilege escalation is possible (i.e. fail securely with regards to handling of privileges).
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:An attacker may be able to elevate privileges.
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:NOTE:An attacker may be able to obtain sensitive information.
- Integrity:Confidentiality:Availability:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:NOTE:An attacker may be able to execute code.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When a product contains certain functions that perform operations requiring an elevated
level of privilege, the caller of a privileged API must be careful to: ensure that
assumptions made by the APIs are valid, such as validity of arguments account for known
weaknesses in the design/implementation of the API call the API from a safe context If the
caller of the API does not follow these requirements, then it may allow a malicious user
or process to elevate their privilege, hijack the process, or steal sensitive data. For
instance, it is important to know if privileged APIs do not shed their privileges before
returning to the caller or if the privileged function might make certain assumptions about
the data, context or state information passed to it by the caller. It is important to
always know when and how privileged APIs can be called in order to ensure that their
elevated level of privilege cannot be exploited.

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Before calling privileged APIs, always ensure that the
assumptions made by the privileged code hold true prior to making the
call.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Know architecture and implementation
weaknesses of the privileged APIs and make sure to account for these weaknesses before
calling the privileged APIs to ensure that they can be called
safely.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:If privileged APIs make certain assumptions
about data, context or state validity that are passed by the caller, the calling code must
ensure that these assumptions have been validated prior to making the
call.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:If privileged APIs do not shed their privilege
prior to returning to the calling code, then calling code needs to shed these privileges
immediately and safely right after the call to the privileged APIs. In particular, the
calling code needs to ensure that a privileged thread of execution will never be returned
to the user or made available to user-controlled
processes.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Only call privileged APIs from safe,
consistent and expected state.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Ensure that a failure or
an error will not leave a system in a state where privileges are not properly shed and
privilege escalation is possible (i.e. fail securely with regards to handling of
privileges).::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
