cwe: CWE-335
name: Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product uses a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) but does not correctly manage
seeds.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- Apply least privilege, validate input, and follow vendor hardening guides.
Don't:
- Access Control:Other:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:Avoid situations leading toOther:NOTE:If a PRNG is used incorrectly, such as using the same seed for each initialization or using a predictable seed, then an attacker may be able to easily guess the seed and thus the random numbers. This could lead to unauthorized access to a system if the seed is used for authentication and authorization.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
PRNGs are deterministic and, while their output appears random, they cannot actually
create entropy. They rely on cryptographically secure and unique seeds for entropy so
proper seeding is critical to the secure operation of the PRNG. Management of seeds could
be broken down into two main areas: (1) protecting seeds as cryptographic material (such
as a cryptographic key); (2) whenever possible, using a uniquely generated seed from a
cryptographically secure source PRNGs require a seed as input to generate a stream of
numbers that are functionally indistinguishable from random numbers. While the output is,
in many cases, sufficient for cryptographic uses, the output of any PRNG is directly
determined by the seed provided as input. If the seed can be ascertained by a third party,
the entire output of the PRNG can be made known to them. As such, the seed should be kept
secret and should ideally not be able to be guessed. For example, the current time may be
a poor seed. Knowing the approximate time the PRNG was seeded greatly reduces the possible
key space. Seeds do not necessarily need to be unique, but reusing seeds may open up
attacks if the seed is discovered.

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
