cwe: CWE-215
name: Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Debugging Code
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product inserts sensitive information into debugging code, which could expose this
information if the debugging code is not disabled in production.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Do not leave debug statements that could be executed in the source code. Ensure that all debug information is eradicated before releasing the software.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Separation of Privilege:Compartmentalize the system to have safe areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area. Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and reinforces privilege separation functionality. Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When debugging, it may be necessary to report detailed information to the programmer.
However, if the debugging code is not disabled when the product is operating in a
production environment, then this sensitive information may be exposed to attackers.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Do not leave debug statements that could be executed in
the source code. Ensure that all debug information is eradicated before releasing the
software.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Separation of
Privilege:DESCRIPTION:Compartmentalize the system to have safe areas where trust
boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive data to go outside of the
trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the
safe area. Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design,
and the compartmentalization allows for and reinforces privilege separation functionality.
Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
