cwe: CWE-1220
name: Insufficient Granularity of Access Control
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product implements access controls via a policy or other feature with the intention to
disable or restrict accesses (reads and/or writes) to assets in a system from untrusted
agents. However, implemented access controls lack required granularity, which renders the
control policy too broad because it allows accesses from unauthorized agents to the
security-sensitive assets.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Implementation Testing:Access-control-policy protections must be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses. Access-control-policy definition and programming flow must be tested in pre-silicon, post-silicon testing.:EFFECTIVENESS:High
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Integrity:Availability:Access Control:Avoid situations leading toModify Memory:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:Avoid situations leading toOther:LIKELIHOOD:High

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Integrated circuits and hardware engines can expose accesses to assets (device
configuration, keys, etc.) to trusted firmware or a software module (commonly set by
BIOS/bootloader). This access is typically access-controlled. Upon a power reset, the
hardware or system usually starts with default values in registers, and the trusted
firmware (Boot firmware) configures the necessary access-control protection. A common
weakness that can exist in such protection schemes is that access controls or policies are
not granular enough. This condition allows agents beyond trusted agents to access assets
and could lead to a loss of functionality or the ability to set up the device securely.
This further results in security risks from leaked, sensitive, key material to
modification of device configuration.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design Implementation Testing:DESCRIPTION:Access-control-policy
protections must be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses. Access-
control-policy definition and programming flow must be tested in pre-silicon, post-silicon
testing.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
