cwe: CWE-909
name: Missing Initialization of Resource
languages: unspecified
tags: Class, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product does not initialize a critical resource.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Explicitly initialize the resource before use. If this is performed through an API function or standard procedure, follow all specified steps.
- PHASE:Implementation:Pay close attention to complex conditionals that affect initialization, since some branches might not perform the initialization.
- PHASE:Implementation:Avoid race conditions (CWE-362) during initialization routines.
- PHASE:Build and Compilation:Run or compile your product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:NOTE:When reusing a resource such as memory or a program variable, the original contents of that resource may not be cleared before it is sent to an untrusted party.
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:The uninitialized resource may contain values that cause program flow to change in ways that the programmer did not intend.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Many resources require initialization before they can be properly used. If a resource is
not initialized, it could contain unpredictable or expired data, or it could be
initialized to defaults that are invalid. This can have security implications when the
resource is expected to have certain properties or values.

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Explicitly initialize the resource before use. If this
is performed through an API function or standard procedure, follow all specified
steps.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Pay close attention to complex conditionals that
affect initialization, since some branches might not perform the
initialization.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Avoid race conditions (CWE-362) during
initialization routines.::PHASE:Build and Compilation:DESCRIPTION:Run or compile your
product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
