cwe: CWE-771
name: Missing Reference to Active Allocated Resource
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product does not properly maintain a reference to a resource that has been allocated,
which prevents the resource from being reclaimed.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Operation Architecture and Design:Resource Limitation:Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many resources are available. However, these functions are not available on all operating systems. When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770), then limit the allocation of further resources to privileged users; alternately, begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users. Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable (CWE-703).
Don't:
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (Other):NOTE:An attacker that can influence the allocation of resources that are not properly maintained could deplete the available resource pool and prevent all other processes from accessing the same type of resource.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
This does not necessarily apply in languages or frameworks that automatically perform
garbage collection, since the removal of all references may act as a signal that the
resource is ready to be reclaimed.

::PHASE:Operation Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Resource Limitation:DESCRIPTION:Use
resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example,
when managing system resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain
types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many resources are available.
However, these functions are not available on all operating systems. When the current
levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770), then
limit the allocation of further resources to privileged users; alternately, begin
releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may protect the
system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other
users. Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error
handling in case resources become unavailable (CWE-703).::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
