cwe: CWE-772
name: Missing Release of Resource after Effective Lifetime
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product does not release a resource after its effective lifetime has ended, i.e.,
after the resource is no longer needed.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Requirements:Language Selection:Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid. For example, languages such as Java, Ruby, and Lisp perform automatic garbage collection that releases memory for objects that have been deallocated.
- PHASE:Implementation:It is good practice to be responsible for freeing all resources you allocate and to be consistent with how and where you free resources in a function. If you allocate resources that you intend to free upon completion of the function, you must be sure to free the resources at all exit points for that function including error conditions.
- PHASE:Operation Architecture and Design:Resource Limitation:Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many resources are available. However, these functions are not available on all operating systems. When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770), then limit the allocation of further resources to privileged users; alternately, begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users. Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable (CWE-703).
Don't:
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (Other):Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (Memory):Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (CPU):NOTE:An attacker that can influence the allocation of resources that are not properly released could deplete the available resource pool and prevent all other processes from accessing the same type of resource. Frequently-affected resources include memory, CPU, disk space, power or battery, etc.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::PHASE:Requirements:STRATEGY:Language Selection:DESCRIPTION:Use a language that does not
allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to
avoid. For example, languages such as Java, Ruby, and Lisp perform automatic garbage
collection that releases memory for objects that have been
deallocated.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:It is good practice to be responsible for
freeing all resources you allocate and to be consistent with how and where you free
resources in a function. If you allocate resources that you intend to free upon completion
of the function, you must be sure to free the resources at all exit points for that
function including error conditions.::PHASE:Operation Architecture and
Design:STRATEGY:Resource Limitation:DESCRIPTION:Use resource-limiting settings provided by
the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system resources in POSIX,
setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can
determine how many resources are available. However, these functions are not available on
all operating systems. When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined
for the application (see CWE-770), then limit the allocation of further resources to
privileged users; alternately, begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While
this mitigation may protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers
from adversely impacting other users. Ensure that the application performs the appropriate
error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable (CWE-703).::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
