cwe: CWE-764
name: Multiple Locks of a Critical Resource
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product locks a critical resource more times than intended, leading to an unexpected
state in the system.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:When locking and unlocking a resource, try to be sure that all control paths through the code in which the resource is locked one or more times correspond to exactly as many unlocks. If the software acquires a lock and then determines it is not able to perform its intended behavior, be sure to release the lock(s) before waiting for conditions to improve. Reacquire the lock(s) before trying again.
Don't:
- Availability:Integrity:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (CPU):Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:Avoid situations leading toUnexpected State

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When a product is operating in a concurrent environment and repeatedly locks a critical
resource, the consequences will vary based on the type of lock, the lock's implementation,
and the resource being protected. In some situations such as with semaphores, the
resources are pooled and extra locking calls will reduce the size of the total available
pool, possibly leading to degraded performance or a denial of service. If this can be
triggered by an attacker, it will be similar to an unrestricted lock (CWE-412). In the
context of a binary lock, it is likely that any duplicate locking attempts will never
succeed since the lock is already held and progress may not be possible.

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:When locking and unlocking a resource, try to be sure
that all control paths through the code in which the resource is locked one or more times
correspond to exactly as many unlocks. If the software acquires a lock and then determines
it is not able to perform its intended behavior, be sure to release the lock(s) before
waiting for conditions to improve. Reacquire the lock(s) before trying again.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
