cwe: CWE-262
name: Not Using Password Aging
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product does not have a mechanism in place for managing password aging.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:As part of a product's design, require users to change their passwords regularly and avoid reusing previous passwords.
- PHASE:Implementation:Developers might disable clipboard paste operations into password fields as a way to discourage users from pasting a password into a clipboard. However, this might encourage users to choose less-secure passwords that are easier to type, and it can reduce the usability of password managers [REF-1294].:EFFECTIVENESS:Discouraged Common Practice
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:As passwords age, the probability that they are compromised grows.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Password aging (or password rotation) is a policy that forces users to change their
passwords after a defined time period passes, such as every 30 or 90 days. Without
mechanisms such as aging, users might not change their passwords in a timely manner. Note
that while password aging was once considered an important security feature, it has since
fallen out of favor by many, because it is not as effective against modern threats
compared to other mechanisms such as slow hashes. In addition, forcing frequent changes
can unintentionally encourage users to select less-secure passwords. However, password
aging is still in use due to factors such as compliance requirements, e.g., Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:As part of a product's design, require users
to change their passwords regularly and avoid reusing previous
passwords.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Developers might disable clipboard paste
operations into password fields as a way to discourage users from pasting a password into
a clipboard. However, this might encourage users to choose less-secure passwords that are
easier to type, and it can reduce the usability of password managers
[REF-1294].:EFFECTIVENESS:Discouraged Common Practice::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
