cwe: CWE-125
name: Out-of-bounds Read
languages: C, C++
tags: Base, Draft, Memory Management
---
Short Description:
The product reads data past the end, or before the beginning, of the intended buffer.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Input Validation:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. To reduce the likelihood of introducing an out-of-bounds read, ensure that you validate and ensure correct calculations for any length argument, buffer size calculation, or offset. Be especially careful of relying on a sentinel (i.e. special character such as NUL) in untrusted inputs.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Language Selection:Use a language that provides appropriate memory abstractions.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:NOTE:An attacker could get secret values such as cryptographic keys, PII, memory addresses, or other information that could be used in additional attacks.
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism:NOTE:Out-of-bounds memory could contain memory addresses or other information that can be used to bypass ASLR and other protection mechanisms in order to improve the reliability of exploiting a separate weakness for code execution.
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:An attacker could cause a segmentation fault or crash by causing memory to be read outside of the bounds of the buffer. This is especially likely when the code reads a variable amount of data and assumes that a sentinel exists to stop the read operation, such as a NUL in a string.
- Other:Avoid situations leading toVaries by Context:NOTE:The read operation could produce other undefined or unexpected results.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::METHOD:Fuzzing:DESCRIPTION:Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating
large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically - and dynamically
invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of
generating unexpected results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption.
Fuzzing effectively produces repeatable test cases that clearly indicate bugs, which helps
developers to diagnose the issues.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::METHOD:Automated Static
Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application
Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this weakness by analyzing source code
(or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically, this is done by
building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching for potentially-vulnerable
patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks (destinations where the data
interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS,
etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is
malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a list of
acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not
strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When
performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including
length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs,
syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains
alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain
colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed
inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's
environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended
validation. However, denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or
determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. To reduce
the likelihood of introducing an out-of-bounds read, ensure that you validate and ensure
correct calculations for any length argument, buffer size calculation, or offset. Be
especially careful of relying on a sentinel (i.e. special character such as NUL) in
untrusted inputs.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Language
Selection:DESCRIPTION:Use a language that provides appropriate memory abstractions.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
