cwe: CWE-645
name: Overly Restrictive Account Lockout Mechanism
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product contains an account lockout protection mechanism, but the mechanism is too
restrictive and can be triggered too easily, which allows attackers to deny service to
legitimate users by causing their accounts to be locked out.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Implement more intelligent password throttling mechanisms such as those which take IP address into account, in addition to the login name.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Implement a lockout timeout that grows as the number of incorrect login attempts goes up, eventually resulting in a complete lockout.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Consider alternatives to account lockout that would still be effective against password brute force attacks, such as presenting the user machine with a puzzle to solve (makes it do some computation).
Don't:
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Resource Consumption (Other):NOTE:Users could be locked out of accounts.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Account lockout is a security feature often present in applications as a countermeasure to
the brute force attack on the password based authentication mechanism of the system. After
a certain number of failed login attempts, the users' account may be disabled for a
certain period of time or until it is unlocked by an administrator. Other security events
may also possibly trigger account lockout. However, an attacker may use this very security
feature to deny service to legitimate system users. It is therefore important to ensure
that the account lockout security mechanism is not overly restrictive.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Implement more intelligent password throttling
mechanisms such as those which take IP address into account, in addition to the login
name.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Implement a lockout timeout that grows as
the number of incorrect login attempts goes up, eventually resulting in a complete
lockout.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Consider alternatives to account
lockout that would still be effective against password brute force attacks, such as
presenting the user machine with a puzzle to solve (makes it do some computation).::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
