cwe: CWE-263
name: Password Aging with Long Expiration
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product supports password aging, but the expiration period is too long.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Previously, password expiration was widely advocated as a defense-in-depth approach to minimize the risk of weak passwords, and it has become a common practice. Password expiration requires a password to be changed within a fixed time window (such as every 90 days). However, this approach has significant limitations in the current threat landscape, and its utility has been reduced in light of the adoption of related protection mechanisms (such as password complexity and computational effort), along with the recognition that regular password changes often caused users to generate more predictable passwords. As a result, this is now a Discouraged Common Practice [REF-1488] [REF-1489], especially as the sole factor in protecting passwords. It is still strongly encouraged to force password changes in case of evidence of compromise, but this is not the same as a forced expiration on an arbitrary time frame.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Ensure that password aging is limited so that there is a defined maximum age for passwords. Note that if the expiration window is too short, it can cause users to generate poor or predictable passwords.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Ensure that the user is notified several times leading up to the password expiration.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Create mechanisms to prevent users from reusing passwords or creating similar passwords.
- PHASE:Implementation:Developers might disable clipboard paste operations into password fields as a way to discourage users from pasting a password into a clipboard. However, this might encourage users to choose less-secure passwords that are easier to type, and it can reduce the usability of password managers [REF-1294].:EFFECTIVENESS:Discouraged Common Practice
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:As passwords age, the probability that they are compromised grows.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Password aging (or password rotation) is a policy that forces users to change their
passwords after a defined time period passes, such as every 30 or 90 days. A long
expiration provides more time for attackers to conduct password cracking before users are
forced to change to a new password. Note that while password aging was once considered an
important security feature, it has since fallen out of favor by many, because it is not as
effective against modern threats compared to other mechanisms such as slow hashes. In
addition, forcing frequent changes can unintentionally encourage users to select less-
secure passwords. However, password aging is still in use due to factors such as
compliance requirements, e.g., Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Previously, password expiration was widely advocated as
a defense-in-depth approach to minimize the risk of weak passwords, and it has become a
common practice. Password expiration requires a password to be changed within a fixed time
window (such as every 90 days). However, this approach has significant limitations in the
current threat landscape, and its utility has been reduced in light of the adoption of
related protection mechanisms (such as password complexity and computational effort),
along with the recognition that regular password changes often caused users to generate
more predictable passwords. As a result, this is now a Discouraged Common Practice
[REF-1488] [REF-1489], especially as the sole factor in protecting passwords. It is still
strongly encouraged to force password changes in case of evidence of compromise, but this
is not the same as a forced expiration on an arbitrary time frame.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design:DESCRIPTION:Ensure that password aging is limited so that there is a defined
maximum age for passwords. Note that if the expiration window is too short, it can cause
users to generate poor or predictable passwords.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design:DESCRIPTION:Ensure that the user is notified several times leading up to the
password expiration.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Create mechanisms to
prevent users from reusing passwords or creating similar
passwords.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Developers might disable clipboard paste
operations into password fields as a way to discourage users from pasting a password into
a clipboard. However, this might encourage users to choose less-secure passwords that are
easier to type, and it can reduce the usability of password managers
[REF-1294].:EFFECTIVENESS:Discouraged Common Practice::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
