cwe: CWE-343
name: Predictable Value Range from Previous Values
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product's random number generator produces a series of values which, when observed,
can be used to infer a relatively small range of possibilities for the next value that
could be generated.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- Increase the entropy used to seed a PRNG.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Requirements:Libraries or Frameworks:Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [REF-267] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex C (Approved Random Number Generators).
- PHASE:Implementation:Use a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware devices with high entropy. However, do not re-seed too frequently, or else the entropy source might block.
Don't:
- Other:Avoid situations leading toVaries by Context

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
The output of a random number generator should not be predictable based on observations of
previous values. In some cases, an attacker cannot predict the exact value that will be
produced next, but can narrow down the possibilities significantly. This reduces the
amount of effort to perform a brute force attack. For example, suppose the product
generates random numbers between 1 and 100, but it always produces a larger value until it
reaches 100. If the generator produces an 80, then the attacker knows that the next value
will be somewhere between 81 and 100. Instead of 100 possibilities, the attacker only
needs to consider 20.

::PHASE::DESCRIPTION:Increase the entropy used to seed a PRNG.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design Requirements:STRATEGY:Libraries or Frameworks:DESCRIPTION:Use products or modules
that conform to FIPS 140-2 [REF-267] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2
Annex C (Approved Random Number Generators).::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Use a PRNG
that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware
devices with high entropy. However, do not re-seed too frequently, or else the entropy
source might block.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
