cwe: CWE-268
name: Privilege Chaining
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
Two distinct privileges, roles, capabilities, or rights can be combined in a way that
allows an entity to perform unsafe actions that would not be allowed without that
combination.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Separation of Privilege:Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a system resource.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:Environment Hardening:Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [REF-76]. If possible, create isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way, a successful attack will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as the database administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:A user can be given or gain access rights of another user. This can give the user unauthorized access to sensitive information including the access information of another user.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Separation of Privilege:DESCRIPTION:Consider
following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met
before permitting access to a system resource.::PHASE:Architecture and Design
Operation:DESCRIPTION:Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of
privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.::PHASE:Architecture and Design
Operation:STRATEGY:Environment Hardening:DESCRIPTION:Run your code using the lowest
privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [REF-76]. If possible,
create isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task.
That way, a successful attack will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of
the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
