cwe: CWE-270
name: Privilege Context Switching Error
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product does not properly manage privileges while it is switching between different
contexts that have different privileges or spheres of control.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:Environment Hardening:Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [REF-76]. If possible, create isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way, a successful attack will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as the database administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Separation of Privilege:Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a system resource.
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:A user can assume the identity of another user with separate privileges in another context. This will give the user unauthorized access that may allow them to acquire the access information of other users.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:DESCRIPTION:Very carefully manage the setting,
management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the
software.::PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:STRATEGY:Environment
Hardening:DESCRIPTION:Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to
accomplish the necessary tasks [REF-76]. If possible, create isolated accounts with
limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way, a successful attack
will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its
environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as the database
administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design:STRATEGY:Separation of Privilege:DESCRIPTION:Consider following the principle of
separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to
a system resource.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
