cwe: CWE-301
name: Reflection Attack in an Authentication Protocol
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
Simple authentication protocols are subject to reflection attacks if a malicious user can
use the target machine to impersonate a trusted user.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Use different keys for the initiator and responder or of a different type of challenge for the initiator and responder.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Let the initiator prove its identity before proceeding.
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:The primary result of reflection attacks is successful authentication with a target machine -- as an impersonated user.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
A mutual authentication protocol requires each party to respond to a random challenge by
the other party by encrypting it with a pre-shared key. Often, however, such protocols
employ the same pre-shared key for communication with a number of different entities. A
malicious user or an attacker can easily compromise this protocol without possessing the
correct key by employing a reflection attack on the protocol. Reflection attacks
capitalize on mutual authentication schemes in order to trick the target into revealing
the secret shared between it and another valid user. In a basic mutual-authentication
scheme, a secret is known to both the valid user and the server; this allows them to
authenticate. In order that they may verify this shared secret without sending it plainly
over the wire, they utilize a Diffie-Hellman-style scheme in which they each pick a value,
then request the hash of that value as keyed by the shared secret. In a reflection attack,
the attacker claims to be a valid user and requests the hash of a random value from the
server. When the server returns this value and requests its own value to be hashed, the
attacker opens another connection to the server. This time, the hash requested by the
attacker is the value which the server requested in the first connection. When the server
returns this hashed value, it is used in the first connection, authenticating the attacker
successfully as the impersonated valid user.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Use different keys for the initiator and
responder or of a different type of challenge for the initiator and
responder.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Let the initiator prove its identity
before proceeding.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
