cwe: CWE-656
name: Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
languages: unspecified
tags: Class, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product uses a protection mechanism whose strength depends heavily on its obscurity,
such that knowledge of its algorithms or key data is sufficient to defeat the mechanism.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Always consider whether knowledge of your code or design is sufficient to break it. Reverse engineering is a highly successful discipline, and financially feasible for motivated adversaries. Black-box techniques are established for binary analysis of executables that use obfuscation, runtime analysis of proprietary protocols, inferring file formats, and others.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:When available, use publicly-vetted algorithms and procedures, as these are more likely to undergo more extensive security analysis and testing. This is especially the case with encryption and authentication.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Integrity:Availability:Other:Avoid situations leading toOther:NOTE:The security mechanism can be bypassed easily.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
This reliance on security through obscurity can produce resultant weaknesses if an
attacker is able to reverse engineer the inner workings of the mechanism. Note that
obscurity can be one small part of defense in depth, since it can create more work for an
attacker; however, it is a significant risk if used as the primary means of protection.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Always consider whether knowledge of your code
or design is sufficient to break it. Reverse engineering is a highly successful
discipline, and financially feasible for motivated adversaries. Black-box techniques are
established for binary analysis of executables that use obfuscation, runtime analysis of
proprietary protocols, inferring file formats, and others.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design:DESCRIPTION:When available, use publicly-vetted algorithms and procedures, as these
are more likely to undergo more extensive security analysis and testing. This is
especially the case with encryption and authentication.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
