cwe: CWE-649
name: Reliance on Obfuscation or Encryption of Security-Relevant Inputs without Integrity Checking
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product uses obfuscation or encryption of inputs that should not be mutable by an
external actor, but the product does not use integrity checks to detect if those inputs
have been modified.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Protect important client controllable tokens/parameters for integrity using PKI methods (i.e. digital signatures) or other means, and checks for integrity on the server side.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Repeated requests from a particular user that include invalid values of tokens/parameters (those that should not be changed manually by users) should result in the user account lockout.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Client side tokens/parameters should not be such that it would be easy/predictable to guess another valid state.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Obfuscation should not be relied upon. If encryption is used, it needs to be properly applied (i.e. proven algorithm and implementation, use padding, use random initialization vector, user proper encryption mode). Even with proper encryption where the ciphertext does not leak information about the plaintext or reveal its structure, compromising integrity is possible (although less likely) without the provision of the integrity service.
Don't:
- Integrity:Avoid situations leading toUnexpected State:NOTE:The inputs could be modified without detection, causing the product to have unexpected system state or make incorrect security decisions.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When an application relies on obfuscation or incorrectly applied / weak encryption to
protect client-controllable tokens or parameters, that may have an effect on the user
state, system state, or some decision made on the server. Without protecting the
tokens/parameters for integrity, the application is vulnerable to an attack where an
adversary traverses the space of possible values of the said token/parameter in order to
attempt to gain an advantage. The goal of the attacker is to find another admissible value
that will somehow elevate their privileges in the system, disclose information or change
the behavior of the system in some way beneficial to the attacker. If the application does
not protect these critical tokens/parameters for integrity, it will not be able to
determine that these values have been tampered with. Measures that are used to protect
data for confidentiality should not be relied upon to provide the integrity service.

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Protect important client controllable
tokens/parameters for integrity using PKI methods (i.e. digital signatures) or other
means, and checks for integrity on the server side.::PHASE:Architecture and
Design:DESCRIPTION:Repeated requests from a particular user that include invalid values of
tokens/parameters (those that should not be changed manually by users) should result in
the user account lockout.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Client side
tokens/parameters should not be such that it would be easy/predictable to guess another
valid state.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Obfuscation should not be relied
upon. If encryption is used, it needs to be properly applied (i.e. proven algorithm and
implementation, use padding, use random initialization vector, user proper encryption
mode). Even with proper encryption where the ciphertext does not leak information about
the plaintext or reveal its structure, compromising integrity is possible (although less
likely) without the provision of the integrity service.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
