cwe: CWE-562
name: Return of Stack Variable Address
languages: C, C++
tags: Base, Draft, Memory Management
---
Short Description:
A function returns the address of a stack variable, which will cause unintended program
behavior, typically in the form of a crash.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Testing:Use static analysis tools to spot return of the address of a stack variable.
Don't:
- Availability:Integrity:Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:Avoid situations leading toModify Memory:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:If the returned stack buffer address is dereferenced after the return, then an attacker may be able to modify or read memory, depending on how the address is used. If the address is used for reading, then the address itself may be exposed, or the contents that the address points to. If the address is used for writing, this can lead to a crash and possibly code execution.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Because local variables are allocated on the stack, when a program returns a pointer to a
local variable, it is returning a stack address. A subsequent function call is likely to
re-use this same stack address, thereby overwriting the value of the pointer, which no
longer corresponds to the same variable since a function's stack frame is invalidated when
it returns. At best this will cause the value of the pointer to change unexpectedly. In
many cases it causes the program to crash the next time the pointer is dereferenced.

::METHOD:Fuzzing:DESCRIPTION:Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating
large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically - and dynamically
invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of
generating unexpected results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption.
Fuzzing effectively produces repeatable test cases that clearly indicate bugs, which helps
developers to diagnose the issues.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::METHOD:Automated Static
Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application
Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this weakness by analyzing source code
(or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically, this is done by
building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching for potentially-vulnerable
patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks (destinations where the data
interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS,
etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Testing:DESCRIPTION:Use static analysis tools to spot return of the address of a
stack variable.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
