cwe: CWE-364
name: Signal Handler Race Condition
languages: C, C++
tags: Base, Incomplete, Interprocess Communication, Signals
---
Short Description:
The product uses a signal handler that introduces a race condition.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Requirements:Language Selection:Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Design signal handlers to only set flags, rather than perform complex functionality. These flags can then be checked and acted upon within the main program loop.
- PHASE:Implementation:Only use reentrant functions within signal handlers. Also, use validation to ensure that state is consistent while performing asynchronous actions that affect the state of execution.
Don't:
- Integrity:Confidentiality:Availability:Avoid situations leading toModify Application Data:Avoid situations leading toModify Memory:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:Avoid situations leading toExecute Unauthorized Code or Commands:NOTE:It may be possible to cause data corruption and possibly execute arbitrary code by modifying global variables or data structures at unexpected times, violating the assumptions of code that uses this global data.
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:If a signal handler interrupts code that is executing with privileges, it may be possible that the signal handler will also be executed with elevated privileges, possibly making subsequent exploits more severe.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Race conditions frequently occur in signal handlers, since signal handlers support
asynchronous actions. These race conditions have a variety of root causes and symptoms.
Attackers may be able to exploit a signal handler race condition to cause the product
state to be corrupted, possibly leading to a denial of service or even code execution.
These issues occur when non-reentrant functions, or state-sensitive actions occur in the
signal handler, where they may be called at any time. These behaviors can violate
assumptions being made by the regular code that is interrupted, or by other signal
handlers that may also be invoked. If these functions are called at an inopportune moment
- such as while a non-reentrant function is already running - memory corruption could
occur that may be exploitable for code execution. Another signal race condition commonly
found occurs when free is called within a signal handler, resulting in a double free and
therefore a write-what-where condition. Even if a given pointer is set to NULL after it
has been freed, a race condition still exists between the time the memory was freed and
the pointer was set to NULL. This is especially problematic if the same signal handler has
been set for more than one signal -- since it means that the signal handler itself may be
reentered. There are several known behaviors related to signal handlers that have received
the label of signal handler race condition: Shared state (e.g. global data or static
variables) that are accessible to both a signal handler and regular code Shared state
between a signal handler and other signal handlers Use of non-reentrant functionality
within a signal handler - which generally implies that shared state is being used. For
example, malloc() and free() are non-reentrant because they may use global or static data
structures for managing memory, and they are indirectly used by innocent-seeming functions
such as syslog(); these functions could be exploited for memory corruption and, possibly,
code execution. Association of the same signal handler function with multiple signals -
which might imply shared state, since the same code and resources are accessed. For
example, this can be a source of double-free and use-after-free weaknesses. Use of setjmp
and longjmp, or other mechanisms that prevent a signal handler from returning control back
to the original functionality While not technically a race condition, some signal handlers
are designed to be called at most once, and being called more than once can introduce
security problems, even when there are not any concurrent calls to the signal handler.
This can be a source of double-free and use-after-free weaknesses. Signal handler
vulnerabilities are often classified based on the absence of a specific protection
mechanism, although this style of classification is discouraged in CWE because programmers
often have a choice of several different mechanisms for addressing the weakness. Such
protection mechanisms may preserve exclusivity of access to the shared resource, and
behavioral atomicity for the relevant code: Avoiding shared state Using synchronization in
the signal handler Using synchronization in the regular code Disabling or masking other
signals, which provides atomicity (which effectively ensures exclusivity)

::PHASE:Requirements:STRATEGY:Language Selection:DESCRIPTION:Use a language that does not
allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to
avoid.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Design signal handlers to only set
flags, rather than perform complex functionality. These flags can then be checked and
acted upon within the main program loop.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Only use
reentrant functions within signal handlers. Also, use validation to ensure that state is
consistent while performing asynchronous actions that affect the state of execution.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
