cwe: CWE-252
name: Unchecked Return Value
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product does not check the return value from a method or function, which can prevent
it from detecting unexpected states and conditions.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is expected.:EFFECTIVENESS:High
- PHASE:Implementation:For any pointers that could have been modified or provided from a function that can return NULL, check the pointer for NULL before use. When working with a multithreaded or otherwise asynchronous environment, ensure that proper locking APIs are used to lock before the check, and unlock when it has finished [REF-1484].
- PHASE:Implementation:Ensure that you account for all possible return values from the function.
- PHASE:Implementation:When designing a function, make sure you return a value or throw an exception in case of an error.
Don't:
- Availability:Integrity:Avoid situations leading toUnexpected State:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:An unexpected return value could place the system in a state that could lead to a crash or other unintended behaviors.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
Two common programmer assumptions are this function call can never fail and it doesn't
matter if this function call fails. If an attacker can force the function to fail or
otherwise return a value that is not expected, then the subsequent program logic could
lead to a vulnerability, because the product is not in a state that the programmer
assumes. For example, if the program calls a function to drop privileges but does not
check the return code to ensure that privileges were successfully dropped, then the
program will continue to operate with the higher privileges.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Check the results of all functions that return a value
and verify that the value is
expected.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:For any pointers that could
have been modified or provided from a function that can return NULL, check the pointer for
NULL before use. When working with a multithreaded or otherwise asynchronous environment,
ensure that proper locking APIs are used to lock before the check, and unlock when it has
finished [REF-1484].::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Ensure that you account for all
possible return values from the function.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:When designing
a function, make sure you return a value or throw an exception in case of an error.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
