cwe: CWE-523
name: Unprotected Transport of Credentials
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
Login pages do not use adequate measures to protect the user name and password while they
are in transit from the client to the server.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Operation System Configuration:Enforce SSL use for the login page or any page used to transmit user credentials or other sensitive information. Even if the entire site does not use SSL, it MUST use SSL for login. Additionally, to help prevent phishing attacks, make sure that SSL serves the login page. SSL allows the user to verify the identity of the server to which they are connecting. If the SSL serves login page, the user can be certain they are talking to the proper end system. A phishing attack would typically redirect a user to a site that does not have a valid trusted server certificate issued from an authorized supplier.
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toGain Privileges or Assume Identity

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Operation System Configuration:DESCRIPTION:Enforce SSL use for the login page or
any page used to transmit user credentials or other sensitive information. Even if the
entire site does not use SSL, it MUST use SSL for login. Additionally, to help prevent
phishing attacks, make sure that SSL serves the login page. SSL allows the user to verify
the identity of the server to which they are connecting. If the SSL serves login page, the
user can be certain they are talking to the proper end system. A phishing attack would
typically redirect a user to a site that does not have a valid trusted server certificate
issued from an authorized supplier.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
