cwe: CWE-547
name: Use of Hard-coded, Security-relevant Constants
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product uses hard-coded constants instead of symbolic names for security-critical
values, which increases the likelihood of mistakes during code maintenance or security
policy change.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Avoid using hard-coded constants. Configuration files offer a more flexible solution.
Don't:
- Other:Avoid situations leading toVaries by Context:Avoid situations leading toQuality Degradation:NOTE:The existence of hardcoded constants could cause unexpected behavior and the introduction of weaknesses during code maintenance or when making changes to the code if all occurrences are not modified. The use of hardcoded constants is an indication of poor quality.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
If the developer does not find all occurrences of the hard-coded constants, an incorrect
policy decision may be made if one of the constants is not changed. Making changes to
these values will require code changes that may be difficult or impossible once the system
is released to the field. In addition, these hard-coded values may become available to
attackers if the code is ever disclosed.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Avoid using hard-coded constants. Configuration files
offer a more flexible solution.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
