cwe: CWE-908
name: Use of Uninitialized Resource
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Incomplete
---
Short Description:
The product uses or accesses a resource that has not been initialized.

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Implementation:Explicitly initialize the resource before use. If this is performed through an API function or standard procedure, follow all required steps.
- PHASE:Implementation:Pay close attention to complex conditionals that affect initialization, since some branches might not perform the initialization.
- PHASE:Implementation:Avoid race conditions (CWE-362) during initialization routines.
- PHASE:Build and Compilation:Run or compile the product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.
Don't:
- Confidentiality:Avoid situations leading toRead Memory:Avoid situations leading toRead Application Data:NOTE:When reusing a resource such as memory or a program variable, the original contents of that resource may not be cleared before it is sent to an untrusted party.
- Availability:Avoid situations leading toDoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:The uninitialized resource may contain values that cause program flow to change in ways that the programmer did not intend.

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
When a resource has not been properly initialized, the product may behave unexpectedly.
This may lead to a crash or invalid memory access, but the consequences vary depending on
the type of resource and how it is used within the product.

::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Explicitly initialize the resource before use. If this
is performed through an API function or standard procedure, follow all required
steps.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Pay close attention to complex conditionals that
affect initialization, since some branches might not perform the
initialization.::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:Avoid race conditions (CWE-362) during
initialization routines.::PHASE:Build and Compilation:DESCRIPTION:Run or compile the
product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
