cwe: CWE-328
name: Use of Weak Hash
languages: unspecified
tags: Base, Draft
---
Short Description:
The product uses an algorithm that produces a digest (output value) that does not meet
security expectations for a hash function that allows an adversary to reasonably determine
the original input (preimage attack), find another input that can produce the same hash
(2nd preimage attack), or find multiple inputs that evaluate to the same hash (birthday
attack).

Secure Coding Checklist:
Do:
- PHASE:Architecture and Design:Use an adaptive hash function that can be configured to change the amount of computational effort needed to compute the hash, such as the number of iterations (stretching) or the amount of memory required. Some hash functions perform salting automatically. These functions can significantly increase the overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast functions such as MD5. For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing overhead. Finally, since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique can be reconfigured to increase the workload without forcing an entire replacement of the algorithm in use. Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties include bcrypt [REF-291], scrypt [REF-292], and PBKDF2 [REF-293]. While there is active debate about which of these is the most effective, they are all stronger than using salts with hash functions with very little computing overhead. Note that using these functions can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-of-service attacks. However, their configurability provides finer control over how much CPU and memory is used, so it could be adjusted to suit the environment's needs.:EFFECTIVENESS:High
Don't:
- Access Control:Avoid situations leading toBypass Protection Mechanism

Language-Agnostic Guidance:
A hash function is defined as an algorithm that maps arbitrarily sized data into a fixed-
sized digest (output) such that the following properties hold: The algorithm is not
invertible (also called one-way or not reversible) The algorithm is deterministic; the
same input produces the same digest every time Building on this definition, a
cryptographic hash function must also ensure that a malicious actor cannot leverage the
hash function to have a reasonable chance of success at determining any of the following:
the original input (preimage attack), given only the digest another input that can produce
the same digest (2nd preimage attack), given the original input a set of two or more
inputs that evaluate to the same digest (birthday attack), given the actor can arbitrarily
choose the inputs to be hashed and can do so a reasonable amount of times What is regarded
as reasonable varies by context and threat model, but in general, reasonable could cover
any attack that is more efficient than brute force (i.e., on average, attempting half of
all possible combinations). Note that some attacks might be more efficient than brute
force but are still not regarded as achievable in the real world. Any algorithm that does
not meet the above conditions will generally be considered weak for general use in
hashing. In addition to algorithmic weaknesses, a hash function can be made weak by using
the hash in a security context that breaks its security guarantees. For example, using a
hash function without a salt for storing passwords (that are sufficiently short) could
enable an adversary to create a rainbow table [REF-637] to recover the password under
certain conditions; this attack works against such hash functions as MD5, SHA-1, and
SHA-2.

::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis, commonly
referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it.
Typically, this is done by building a model of data flow and control flow, then searching
for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect sources (origins of input) with sinks
(destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the
OS, etc.):EFFECTIVENESS:High::

::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:Use an adaptive hash function that can be
configured to change the amount of computational effort needed to compute the hash, such
as the number of iterations (stretching) or the amount of memory required. Some hash
functions perform salting automatically. These functions can significantly increase the
overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast functions such as MD5.
For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing
overhead. Finally, since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique
can be reconfigured to increase the workload without forcing an entire replacement of the
algorithm in use. Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties
include bcrypt [REF-291], scrypt [REF-292], and PBKDF2 [REF-293]. While there is active
debate about which of these is the most effective, they are all stronger than using salts
with hash functions with very little computing overhead. Note that using these functions
can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-
of-service attacks. However, their configurability provides finer control over how much
CPU and memory is used, so it could be adjusted to suit the environment's
needs.:EFFECTIVENESS:High::

Sample Fix Idea (Pseudo-code):
```pseudo
# High-level remediation stub
if receives_untrusted_input():
    validate_against_allowlist()
    enforce_least_privilege()
    log_and_monitor()
```
